add docs blog (#3034)
pulumi/pulumi-hugo: themes/default/content/blog/enhanced-search-intuitive-navigation-new-docs-experience/index.md

<!--more-->

We prioritized search and navigation, so you can easily browse and search for precisely what you want. Enjoy faster and more accurate searches, with lovely user experience touches to guide you to the right place. We also planned for the future, using design patterns that will grow with content and concepts.

![Pulumi docs welcome banner](imgs/banner.png)

Let's showcase a few types of Pulumi documentation:

## Quickstart experience

The [Pulumi quickstart](/docs/quickstart/) experience is for people new to Pulumi to get up and running quickly.

![Pulumi docs quickstart experience](imgs/quickstart.png)

## Cloud get started tutorials

The [Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](/docs/clouds/) are for people who want a detailed walkthrough the first time they use Pulumi.

![Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](imgs/get-started.png)

## Concept docs

The [Pulumi concept docs](/docs/concepts/) are where you can dive into Pulumi concepts, how they work together, and how to effectively use them to ship infrastructure.

![Pulumi concept docs](imgs/concepts.png)

## Packages

> The [package documentation](/docs/registry/) is where to find config and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, & infrastructure, monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [package documentation](/docs/registry/) is where to find configuration and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, & infrastructure, monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!
```

> The [package documentation](/docs/registry/) is where to find config and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, & infrastructure, monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!

Reviewer: > clouds, version control systems, databases, & infrastructure, monitoring, and networking tools

I think I know why it's written this way ("clouds, version control systems, databases" are one group, "infrastructure, monitoring, and networking tools" are another group) but it reads awkwardly. We may want to consider re-wording it.

Author: @sean1588 fixed it! 💜

---
title: "Enhanced search & Navigation: The new Pulumi Docs experience"
date: 2023-06-12
meta_desc:  At Pulumi, we believe in exceptional documentation experiences that help people using Pulumi find what they need quickly and use it successfully.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - susan-evans
    - anita-trimbur
    - sean-holung
tags:
    - pulumi-releases
    - features
    - ux
---

> Engineers spend a lot of time searching documentation for answers. At Pulumi, we believe in exceptional documentation experiences that help people using Pulumi find what they need quickly and use it successfully. Today, we announce an improved Pulumi documentation experience dedicated to all developers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Engineers spend a lot of their valuable time searching documentation for answers. At Pulumi, we believe in exceptional documentation experiences that help people using Pulumi find what they need quickly and use it successfully. Today, we are announcing a set of improved Pulumi documentation experiences that collectively make it easier than ever to discover, learn and build cloud infrastructure with Pulumi.
```

<!--more-->

> We prioritized search and navigation, so you can easily browse and search for precisely what you want. Enjoy faster and more accurate searches, with lovely user experience touches to guide you to the right place. We also planned for the future, using design patterns that will grow with content and concepts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The improvements we've introduced to the Pulumi documentation experience focus on three areas - search, navigation and discoverability.  Together, they help every user of the Pulumi documentation find the answers they are looking for quickly, so that they can solve their infrastructure as code use case and leverage Pulumi effectively in their projects. These changes also introduce new design patterns and user experience elements that are being used across various previously independent parts of the Pulumi documentation experience, bringing these together as part of a more cohesive developer experience.
```

![Pulumi docs welcome banner](imgs/banner.png)

Let's showcase a few types of Pulumi documentation:

> ## Quickstart experience

Reviewer 2: Could we have a section on "Unified navigation" to highlight the consistent top and left navigation that has been introduced across docs and packages content?

> The [Pulumi quickstart](/docs/quickstart/) experience is for people new to Pulumi to get up and running quickly.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps we could have top level sections on each of search and navigation, and then also a section on "discoverability" that highlights these 4 categories of content and how they fit in?  (Quickstart, cloud get started, concepts, package)

Not strictly necessary - but may help organize these a little better since there are sort of two categories of experiences being highlighted here.

![Pulumi docs quickstart experience](imgs/quickstart.png)

## Cloud get started tutorials

The [Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](/docs/clouds/) are for people who want a more detailed walkthrough when using Pulumi for the first time.

![Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](imgs/get-started.png)

## Concept docs

The [Pulumi concept docs](/docs/concepts/) are where you can dive into Pulumi concepts. Learn how they work together and how to effectively use them to ship infrastructure.

![Pulumi concept docs](imgs/concepts.png)

## Packages

The [package documentation](/docs/registry/) is where to find configuration and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, infrastructure monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!

![Pulumi api packages](imgs/packages.png)

> ## Search

Reviewer 2: Can we move this to the top - partly because it aligns with the title and intro focus on "search and navigation"?

---
title: "Enhanced search & Navigation: The new Pulumi Docs experience"
date: 2023-06-12
meta_desc:  At Pulumi, we believe in exceptional documentation experiences that help people using Pulumi find what they need quickly and use it successfully.
meta_image: meta.png
authors:
    - susan-evans
    - anita-trimbur
    - sean-holung
tags:
    - pulumi-releases
    - features
    - ux
---

Engineers spend a lot of their valuable time searching documentation for answers. At Pulumi, we believe in exceptional documentation experiences that help people using Pulumi find what they need quickly and use it successfully. Today, we are announcing a set of improved Pulumi documentation experiences that collectively make it easier than ever to discover, learn and build cloud infrastructure with Pulumi.
<!--more-->

> The improvements we've introduced to the Pulumi documentation experience focus on three areas - search, navigation and discoverability.  Together, they help every user of the Pulumi documentation find the answers they are looking for quickly, so that they can solve their infrastructure as code use case and leverage Pulumi effectively in their projects. These changes also introduce new design patterns and user experience elements that are being used across various previously independent parts of the Pulumi documentation experience, bringing these together as part of a more cohesive developer experience.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The improvements we've introduced to the Pulumi documentation experience focus on three areas - search, navigation and discoverability.  Together, they help every user of the Pulumi documentation find the answers they are looking for quickly, so they can solve their infrastructure as code use case and leverage Pulumi effectively in their projects. These changes also introduce new design patterns and user experience elements across previously independent parts of the Pulumi documentation experience, creating a more cohesive developer experience.
```

## Search

As of today, you can quickly and easily search for documentation across all of these types, and we will lead you to the documentation you are looking for to solve your problem. The new search clearly groups documentation by _Docs_ and _Packages_ with clear breadcrumbs to quickly get you to the right place.

![Pulumi docs search](imgs/search.png)

## Unified navigation

> We have unified navigation across both docs and packages and expect to add more content types to Pulumi Docs over the rest of the year. Enjoy easily switching between documentation types and having your left navigation and table of contents navigation remain consistent.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We have unified navigation across both docs and packages and expect to add more content types to Pulumi Docs over the rest of the year. Enjoy easily switching between documentation types while having your left navigation and table of contents navigation remain consistent.
```

![Pulumi docs navigation](imgs/navigation.png)

## Discoverability

In addition to search and navigation, folks must be able to discover new content that will help them even if they don't know that content exists. To that end, let's showcase a few types of Pulumi documentation:

### Quickstart experience

The [Pulumi quickstart](/docs/quickstart/) experience is for people new to Pulumi to get up and running quickly.

![Pulumi docs quickstart experience](imgs/quickstart.png)

### Cloud get started tutorials

The [Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](/docs/clouds/) are for people who want a more detailed walkthrough when using Pulumi for the first time.

![Pulumi cloud get started tutorials](imgs/get-started.png)

### Concept docs

The [Pulumi concept docs](/docs/concepts/) are where you can dive into Pulumi concepts. Learn how they work together and how to effectively use them to ship infrastructure.

![Pulumi concept docs](imgs/concepts.png)

### Packages

> The [package documentation](/docs/registry/) is where to find configuration and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, infrastructure monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!

Author: ```suggestion
The [package documentation](/registry/) is where to find configuration and API documentation for Pulumi supported clouds, version control systems, databases, infrastructure monitoring, and networking tools. We support 119 providers today, and we add new providers every week!
```
